# Publish an update to your site.
Your Alpine Ski House web app is up and running, but now you need to show it to your boss. You're going to have to update the site and publish those updates to Azure.

## Update your web app.
## Replace the boilerplate code.
1. In the **Pages** folder, open the **Privacy.cshtml** file.
2. At the bottom of the code, locate `<p>Use this page to detail your site's privacy policy.</p>`.
3. Replace this boilerplate text with `<p>Welcome to the Alpine Ski House!</p>`.
4. Save the file.
5. Open the `Index.cshtml` file.
6. Replace the content within the `<p>` tags to say **Alpine Ski House is the premier ski hill in Northeast!**
7. Save the file.

### Publish your updates.
1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project.
2. Select **Publish**. A new tab named **AlpineSkiHouse** should open.
3. Select the **Publish** button to deploy the latest changes.

### View your changes.
Once you've published your changes, Visual Studio will open the site in your browser. You should now see your new messages on the home and privacy pages.
Congratulations, you have successfully updated your web app from within Visual Studio 2022.

------
# Summary.
In this module, you created a new ASP.NET web app from scratch, then published it to Azure directly from Visual Studio. You created an App Service app, updated the app, and published changes, all from within Visual Studio.

Visual Studio and Azure App Service provide a powerful mechanism for creating, publishing, and maintaining web apps in Azure. With this combination of simplicity and manageability, keeping web apps up to date in Azure becomes a simple process.

## Clean up.
When you're working in your own subscription, it's a good idea at the end of a project to identify whether you still need the resources you created. Resources that you leave running can cost you money. You can delete resources individually or delete the resource group to delete the entire set of resources.