# Work with paths.
The .NET `Path` class and `Directory.GetCurrentDirectory` are two ways to define and compose file-system paths.

In the previous exercise, you wrote a program that iterates through a folder to find any of the *sales.json* files in it or any subfolders.

In this exercise, you'll use the `Path` class and `Directory.GetCurrentDirectory` to improve the program so it will find any file with a .json extension.

## Use the current directory and combine paths.
In the current **Program.cs** code, you're passing the *static* location of the *stores* folder. We'll change that code to use the `Directory.GetCurrentDirectory` value instead of passing a static folder name.

1. In the editor, insert the following code above the first line of `Program.cs` file. This code uses the `Directory.GetCurrentDirectory` method to obtain the path for the current directory and store it in a new variable `currentDirectory`:

```cs
var currentDirectory = Directory.GetCurrentDirectory();
```

2. Insert the following code after the one that you just added. This code uses the `Path.Combine` method to create the full path to the *stores* directory and store it in a new variable `storesDirectory`:

```cs
var storesDirectory = Path.Combine(currentDirectory, "stores");
```

3. Replace the variable `stores` in the `FindFiles` function with the new variable `storesDirectory`:

```cs
var salesFiles = FindFiles(storesDirectory);
```

The top of your file should now look similar to the following snippet:

```cs
var currentDirectory = Directory.GetCurrentDirectory();
var storesDirectory = Path.Combine(currentDirectory, "stores");
var salesFiles = FindFiles(storesDirectory);

foreach (var file in salesFiles)
{
    Console.WriteLine(file);
}
```
4. Press `Ctrl+S` to save the file.
5. Run the program from the command line:

```bash
dotnet run
```

6. The program should show the following output:

```output
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/201/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/202/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/203/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/204/sales.json
```
Notice that the file names returned include the full system path. This path is included because `Directory.GetCurrentDirectory` method returns the full path to the current location.

## Find all .json files.
Instead of looking for only *sales.json* files, the program needs to search for any file with a .json extension. To do that, you can use the `Path.GetExtension` method to check the extension for each file.
1. In the `foreach` loop in `foundFiles`, insert the following line of code above the `if` statement to define a new variable `extension`. This code uses the `Path.GetExtension` method to get the extension of each file.

```cs
var extension = Path.GetExtension(file);
```

2. Change the `if` statement to look like the following line of code. This statement checks whether the file's extension is equal to .json.

```cs
if (extension == ".json")
```

The `foreach` loop should look similar to the following:

```cs
foreach (var file in foundFiles)
{
    var extension = Path.GetExtension(file);
    if (extension == ".json")
    {
        salesFiles.Add(file);
    }
}
```

3. Press `Ctrl+S` to save the file.
4. Run the program from the command line:

```bash
dotnet run
```

The output now shows all .json files in each of the store ID directories:

```output
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/201/sales.json
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/201/salestotals.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/202/sales.json
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/202/salestotals.json    
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/203/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/203/salestotals.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/204/sales.json  
/home/username/dotnet-files/stores/204/salestotals.json
```

You've used the Path class and the Directory.GetCurrentDirectory method to make the program much more robust.