# Scaffold Student pages.

ASP.NET Core scaffolding tool is used to generate:
* An EF Core `DbContext` class. The context is the main class that coordinates Entity Framework functionality for a given data model. It derives from the [Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.entityframeworkcore.dbcontext) class.
* Razor pages that handle Create, Read, Update, Delete (CRUD) operations for the `Student` entity. 

## Visual Studio.
* Create a *Pages/Students* folder.
* In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the *Pages/Students* folder and select **Add** > **New Scaffolded Item**.
* In the **Add New Scaffold Item** dialog.
    * In the left tab, select **Installed** > **Common** > **Razor Pages**.
    * Select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **ADD**.
* In the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
    * In the **Model class** drop-down, select **Student (ContosoUniversity.Models)**.
    * In the **Data context class** row, select the + (plus) sign.
        * Change the data context name to end in `SchoolContext` rather than `ContosoUniversityContext`. The updated context name: `ContosoUniversity.Data.SchoolContext`.
        * Select **Add** to finish adding the data context class.
        * Select **Add** to finish the **Add Razor Pages** dialog.

The following packages are automatically installed:
* `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer`
* `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools`
* `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Web.CodeGeneration.Design`

If the preceding step fails, build the project and retry the scaffold step.

The scaffolding process:
    * Create Razor pages in the *Pages/Students* folder:
        * `Create.cshtml` and `Create.cshtml.cs`
        * `Delete.cshtml` and `Delete.cshtml.cs`
        * `Details.cshtml` and `Details.cshtml.cs`
        * `Edit.cshtml` and `Edit.cshtml.cs`
        * `Index.cshtml` and `Index.cshtml.cs`
    * Create `Data/SchoolContext.cs`.
    * Adds the context to dependency injection in `Program.cs`.

# Database connection string.
The scaffolding tool generates a connection string in the `app.settings.json` file.

## Visual Studio
The connection string specifies [SQL Server LocalDB](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/configure-windows/sql-server-2016-express-localdb):

```json
{
    "Logging": {
        "LogLevel": {
            "Default": "Information",
            "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
        }
    },
    "AllowedHosts": "*",
    "ConnectionStrings": {
        "SchoolContext": "Server=(localdb)\\mssqllocaldb;Database=SchoolContext-0e9;Trusted_Connection=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=true"
    }
}
```
LocalDB is a lightweight version of the SQL Server Express Database Engine and is intended for app development, not production use. By default, LocalDB creates a *.mdf* files in the `c:/Users/<user>` directory. 

# Update the database context class.
The main class that coordinates EF Core functionality for a given data model is the database context class. The context is derived from [Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.entityframeworkcore.dbcontext). The context specifies which entities are included in the data model. In this project, the class is named `SchoolContext`.

Update `Data/SchoolContext.cs` with the following code:

```cs
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
using ContosoUniversity.Models;

namespace ContosoUniversity.Data
{
    public class SchoolContext : DbContext
    {
        public SchoolContext (DbContextOptions<SchoolContext> options)
        : base(options)
        {
        }

        public DbSet<Student> Students { get; set; }
        public DbSet<Enrollment> Enrollments { get; set; }
        public DbSet<Course> Courses { get; set; }

        protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
        {
            modelBuilder.Entity<Course>().ToTable("Course");
            modelBuilder.Entity<Enrollment>().ToTable("Enrollment");
            modelBuilder.Entity<Student>().ToTable("Student");
        }
    }
}
```
The preceding code changes from the singular `DbSet<Student> Student` to the plural `DbSet<Student> Students`. To make Razor Pages code match the new `DbSet` name, make a global change from: `_context.Student.` to `_context.Students.`

There are 8 occurences.

Because an entity set contains multiple entities, many developers prefer the `DbSet` property names should be plural.

The highlight code:
* Creates a [DbSet<TEntity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.entityframeworkcore.dbset-1) property for each entity set. In EF Core terminology:
    * An entity set typically corresponds to a database table.
    * An entity corresponds to a row in the table.
* Calls [OnModelCreating](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.entityframeworkcore.dbcontext.onmodelcreating).`OnModelCreating`.
    * Is called when `schoolContext` has been initialized, but before the model has been locked down and used to initialize the context.
    * Is required because later in the tutorial the `Student` entity will have references to the other entities.