# Programming Methodologies.
The programming paradigms are the styles/methodologies of writing the code in a program. Various programming styles have been adopted depending upon the requirements. There have been different styles used since the beginning of programming languages, and we will explore a few well-known ways:
1. Monolithic Programming.
2. Modular/ Procedural.
3. Object-Oriented.

## Modular/ Procedural Programming:
In this programming style, the code is written in separate blocks and not in a single block that can be used in the program whenever require without writing the entire piece of code again. Here, a particular set of code is present in the form of functions or modules that can be used wherever required. Therefore, it is called modular programming. The most popular programming language in modular programming is the C language.

Modular programming refers to the division of a program into a number of functional pieces. If the main program is separated into sub-programs, we may code each sub-module separately and then integrate them into a single unit. Individual modules of this type are referred to as functions. For example: Here in this example, we have written a sample code in Modular/ Procedural style.

```cs
static void Main(string[] args)
{
    int n;
    Console.WriteLine("Enter a Positive Integer");
    n = Convert.ToInt32(Console.ReadLine());
    
    bool isPrime = IsPrime(n);

    if (isPrime)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(n + " is a Prime Number");
    }
    else
    {
        Console.WriteLine(n + " is not a Prime Number");
    }
}

private static bool IsPrime(int n)
{
    bool IsPrime = true;
    //0 and 1 are not prime numbers
    if (n == 0 || n == 1)
    {
        IsPrime = false;
    }
    else
    {
        for (int i = 2; i <= n / 2; ++i)
        {
            if (n % i == 0)
            {
                IsPrime = false;
                break;
            }
        }
    }
    return IsPrime;
}
```

**Advantages of modular programming include:**
* It allows easy development of software and application by splitting down a program into smaller programs to execute a variety of tasks.
* It increases the readability of code and makes it easier to understand the code.
* It increases the reusability of code so that a particular piece of code can be used multiple times in a program whenever required.
* It can be used to write bigger and more complex programs.
* A team of programmers can work simultaneously and hence big projects can be done easily.
* It is easy to understand the program.
* Debugging and maintenance become easy.

**Example:** Suppose there is an event organized in college that involves a lot of work like making arrangements, so you can divide the work among different teams and the event can be managed easily. Similarly, the entire work(code) is divided among different functions and the program is executed easily.

**Importance of the main function:** The main function is the manager of the entire code of the program, it manages which block of code is to be executed and when. It is similar to a manager in a shop who manages all the work done by different people in business.

## Classes in Object-Oriented Programming.
In OOPs, the code is written in the form of classes that contains different data members and member functions, the data, and their associated functions are grouped together. The objects can also be created by using class type.

We know in the modular approach we have data and functions as separate entities i.e. Functions can use the data from outside. But in an Object-Oriented style, we can have data and function together as one entity. This entity is called Class and we have created multiple instances of a class called Objects. For example: Here in this example, we have written a sample code in Object-Oriented style.

```cs
//Car is a class
class Car
{
    string Name;
    int Speed;
    int Weight;

    void Break()
    {
    }

    void SlowDown()
    {
    }

    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        //ford is an object
        Car ford = new Car();
    }
}
```

**Advantages of Object-Oriented Programming:**
1. We can build the programs from standard working modules that communicate with one another, rather than having to start writing the code from scratch which leads to saving development time and higher productivity.
2. OOP language allows breaking the program into bit-sized problems that can be solved easily (one object at a time).
3. OOP systems can be easily upgraded from small to large systems.
4. The new technology promises greater programmer productivity, a better quality of software, and lesser maintenance cost.
5. In OOPs, the code is distributed on a large scale that shows a higher level of abstraction.
6. The class contains data and functions so the complexity is within the class, the programmer deals with the entire class.
7. Reusability of the class within the code and outside the code is a big advantage.