# Tools for the project.
* [.NET 6](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0)
* [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/)
* [SSMS 19](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms?view=sql-server-ver16)
* [Deploy on Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-how-to-create-deploy-portal)

Foundation is a basic element of any building and that will be the first thing that will be learned as we explore the fundamentals of **.net core** and its evolution. We will be using **Entity Framework** Code to set up database *connection string* and perform all the database related operation. 
Once we have **Entity Framework** code configured, we will be performing **CRUD** operations on any model. **CRUD** stands for Create, Read, Update and Delete.

So while we perform the correct operations, we will also understand how **Client Side** and **Server Side** validations work with .NET Core, we will display nice alerts using **Temp Data** and **Toaster JS**. 

Now when you learn all of this, one critical piece is added, *solving when it comes to any programming*, I will display you some of the common errors and how will you approach those errors and resolve them. 

Lastly, we will deploy our application to **Azure** and we will see everything live including **SQL Server** which will be hosted on Azure as well.


# DEMO.
1. We will start with an empty project and then we will use **Bootswatch** theme to add some styling. Next, we will be building a category crud project. So when you click on category in the navigation bar, it will open up the page and it will display all the category. 

2. After clicking 'category', there is a create category button. When we click there it takes us to create category page and here we can populate the category with anything. If you press the create button we have default **Client Side Validation**. 

3. We will also have some **Server Side Validation** like if we enter both *name* and *display order* to be same and hit the create button we have a server side validation that display *order cannot exactly match the name*.

4. Then we will have a *back to list* button to go back to our index page with the category list we can **Edit** any of the existing category and as soon as you edit or create something, we have nice toaster alerts that we will be using. 

5. Lastly, we will implement the **Delete** functionality and on that also we will have our alerts. Thus we will see server side, client side validation. We will implement toaster alerts. Then we will look at **Temp Data**. Not only that, once we complete the application, we will be deploying it to Azure so that we will have a complete flow of the application with our database. 

