# Implement CRUD operations
Let's continue extending our web **API** controller to add the ability to create (`POST`), update (`PUT`), and delete (`DELETE`) pizza from our inventory.

------
## Add a pizza
Let's enable a pizza to be added through the web API by using a `POST` method.

Replace the `// POST action` comment in *Controllers/PizzaController.cs* with the following code:

```cs
[HttpPost]
public IActionResult Create(Pizza pizza)
{            
    PizzaService.Add(pizza);
    return CreatedAtAction(nameof(Get), new { id = pizza.Id }, pizza);
}
```
The preceding action:
* Responds only to the **HTTP** `POST` verb, as denoted by the `[HttpPost]` attribute.
* Inserts the request body's `Pizza` object into the in-memory cache.

    -----
    **Note**
    Because the controller is annotated with the `[ApiController]` attribute, it's implied that the `Pizza` parameter will be found in the request body.
    ----
The first parameter in the `CreatedAtAction` method call represents an action name. The `nameof` keyword is used to avoid hard-coding the action name. `CreatedAtAction` uses the action name to generate a `location` **HTTP** response header with a **URL** to the newly created pizza, as explained in the previous unit.

------
## Modify a pizza
Now, let's enable a pizza to be updated through the web **API** by using a `PUT` method.

Replace the `// PUT action` comment in *Controllers/PizzaController.cs* with the following code:

```cs
[HttpPut("{id}")]
public IActionResult Update(int id, Pizza pizza)
{
    if (id != pizza.Id)
        return BadRequest();
           
    var existingPizza = PizzaService.Get(id);
    if(existingPizza is null)
        return NotFound();
   
    PizzaService.Update(pizza);           
   
    return NoContent();
}
```
The preceding action:
* Responds only to the HTTP PUT verb, as denoted by the `[HttpPut]` attribute.
* Requires that the `id` parameter's value is included in the URL segment after `pizza/`.
* Returns `IActionResult`, because the `ActionResult` return type isn't known until runtime. The `BadRequest`, `NotFound`, and `NoContent` methods return `BadRequestResult`, `NotFoundResult`, and `NoContentResult` types, respectively.

    -----
    **Note**
    Because the controller is annotated with the `[ApiController]` attribute, it's implied that the `Pizza` parameter will be found in the request body.
    -----

--------
## Remove a pizza
Finally, let's enable a pizza to be removed through the web API by using a `DELETE` method.

Replace the `// DELETE action` comment in *Controllers/PizzaController.cs* with the following code:

```cs
[HttpDelete("{id}")]
public IActionResult Delete(int id)
{
    var pizza = PizzaService.Get(id);
   
    if (pizza is null)
        return NotFound();
       
    PizzaService.Delete(id);
   
    return NoContent();
}
```
The preceding action:
* Responds only to the **HTTP** `DELETE` verb, as denoted by the `[HttpDelete]` attribute.
* Requires that the `id` parameter's value is included in the **URL** segment after `pizza/`.
* Returns `IActionResult` because the `ActionResult` return type isn't known until runtime. The `NotFound` and `NoContent` methods return `NotFoundResult` and `NoContentResult` types, respectively.
* Queries the in-memory cache for a pizza that matches the provided `id` parameter.

Remember to save the *Controllers/PizzaController.cs* file before proceeding,

------
## Build and run the finished web API
1. Build and start the web API by running the following command:

```.NET CLI
dotnet run
```

2. Reopen the existing `httprepl` terminal, or open a new integrated terminal from Visual Studio Code by selecting **Terminal** > **New Terminal** from the main menu.
3. If you opened a new terminal, connect to the web API by running the following command:

```.NET cLI
httprepl https://localhost:{PORT}
```

Alternatively, run the following command at any time while `HttpRepl` is running:

```.NET CLI
connect https://localhost:{PORT}
```

4. Go to the `Pizza` endpoint by running the following command:

```.NET CLI
cd Pizza
```

5. Run the following command to see the new actions on the **Pizza API**:

```.NET CLI
ls
```
The preceding command shows an output of available APIs for the `Pizza` endpoint:

```
https://localhost:{PORT}/Pizza> ls
    .      [GET|POST]
    ..     []
    {id}   [GET|PUT|DELETE]

```

6. Make a `POST` request to add a new pizza in `HttpRepl` by using the following command:

```.NET CLI
post -c "{"name":"Hawaii", "isGlutenFree":false}"
```
The preceding command returns a list of all pizza:

```Output
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Fri, 02 Apr 2021 23:23:09 GMT
Location: https://localhost:{PORT}/Pizza?id=3
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

{
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Hawaii",
    "isGlutenFree": false
}
```

7. Update the new `Hawaii` pizza to a `Hawaiian` pizza with a `PUT` request by using the following command:

```.NET CLI
put 3 -c  "{"id": 3, "name":"Hawaiian", "isGlutenFree":false}"
```

The proceding command returns the following output that indicates success:

```Output
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Date: Fri, 02 Apr 2021 23:23:55 GMT
Server: Kestrel
```

To verify that the pizza was updated, rerun the `GET` action by using the following command:

```.NET CLI
get 3
```

The preceding command returns the newly updated pizza:

```Output
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Fri, 02 Apr 2021 23:27:37 GMT
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

{
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Hawaiian",
    "isGlutenFree": false
}
```

8. Our API can also delete the newly created pizza through the `DELETE` action if you run the following command:

```.NET CLI
delete 3
```

The preceding command returns a `204 No Content` result for success:

```Output
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Date: Fri, 02 Apr 2021 23:30:04 GMT
Server: Kestrel
```

To verify that the pizza was removed, rerun the `GET` action by using the following command:

```.NET CLI
get
```

The preceding command returns the original pizzas as results:

```Output
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Fri, 02 Apr 2021 23:31:15 GMT
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Classic Italian",
        "isGlutenFree": false
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Veggie",
        "isGlutenFree": true
    }
]
```

You've now finished implementing and testing a newly created web API built with **ASP.NET** Core.

------
# Summary
In this module, you created an ASP.NET Core web API running on .NET. The web API creates, reads, updates, and deletes pizzas from an in-memory cache.

You learned that creating a web API with **ASP.NET Core** entails:

1. Creating a new application by using the **ASP.NET Core Web API** template.
2. Creating classes that inherit from the `ControllerBase` class and that contain methods that respond to **HTTP** requests.

Because this pattern allows you to focus on a single controller action at a time, you can create functional web APIs pretty quickly with a little practice.

In this module, you used an in-memory cache. This approach helped you to focus on learning web API concepts, but it has some obvious limitations for real-world applications. If the application stops, all your changes are lost!

In a real-world application, you'll want to store your data in a backing store, like a database. You can learn how to persist and retrieve relational data by using Entity Framework Core in [this tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/persist-data-ef-core/).

## Videos for learning more
* [.NET 101](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/shows/NET-Core-101/?WT.mc_id=Educationaldotnet-c9-scottha)
* [ASP.NET Core Web API 101](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/shows/Beginners-Series-to-Web-APIs/)
* [ASP.NET Core 101](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/shows/ASPNET-Core-101/?WT.mc_id=Educationaspnet-c9-niner)

## Articles for learning more
* [Tutorial: Create a web API with ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/first-web-api)
* [Create web APIs with ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/web-api/)
* [Controller action return types in ASP.NET Core web API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/web-api/action-return-types)

--------